#summary Describes what to do if you have a question or a problem
= Ask a Question, Report a Problem, or Request a Feature =

== Problems with purchasing, downloading, or installing ==

If you are having problems with purchasing, downloading, or installing the app, please see [http://support.google.com/googleplay/bin/request.py?contact_type=market_phone_tablet_web Google's support page].  I can only help with troubleshooting the app itself.

== Questions, Problems, and Requests ==

(_*Note from 31 March 2012*_: I realize I'm behind on responding to
issues here, and I'm leaving in the morning to visit family for the
first half of April.  I plan to start catching up over the second half
of April.  I do read and consider all issues, I just often don't get
around to responding for some time.)

If you have an issue that isn't addressed in the [http://code.google.com/p/battery-indicator/wiki/FAQ?tm=6 FAQ], please:

 # Search through the existing user-reported issues.
 # If you find your issue and it solves your problem, you're done.
 # If you find your issue and have something to add, please add a comment to it.
 # If your issue is not already described, then create a new issue.  Note that if you have a problem report rather than just a question, you should switch from "Ask a Question" (the default) to "Report a Problem".

Search [http://code.google.com/p/battery-indicator/issues/list?can=1&q=type=Question existing questions].

Search [http://code.google.com/p/battery-indicator/issues/list?can=1&q=type=Defect existing problems].

Or, you can "Request a Feature".  Most requests are pretty good ideas
that nevertheless probably won't make it in, but every once in a
while, a user-suggested features does get added.  In any case, if you
want to suggest a feature, do it here.

Search [http://code.google.com/p/battery-indicator/issues/list?can=1&q=type=Enhancement existing requests].
