#summary Download the APK / Support development
#sidebar sidebar
<h1>Package Download</h1>

<h2>Contents</h2>
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

== Background / Explanation ==

I've always wanted to offer the APK package (the runnable version of
the app) for download from this site, but I've always been a little
afraid it would cost me sales.  Consider this a trial run: I'm very
glad to finally offer these downloads, but if there's a noticeable
decline in sales, I'll have to take this page down.

It is definitely best to get the app through the Android Market if
possible, but there are several situations where it might be useful to
download it from here.  For example:

 * If you do not have access to the Android Market in your country or you are using a custom build of Android without the Android Market.
 * If the price I'm asking in the Android Market is more than you think is fair.
 * If you need more than 15 minutes to decide if the price I'm asking is worth it.

Benefits of downloading from the Android Market rather than this site include:
 * Automatic updates.
 * You increase the number of downloads/installs and can rate and review, all of which help the ranking of the app.

Therefore, even if you initially download the app from here to try it
out, please consider purchasing it from the Market if you can.

If you do download it from here, please consider supporting
development with a donation of whatever amount you feel is
appropriate.

== Support / Donate ==

Donations of any size are appreciated. (Honestly! I really won't judge
you if it's a relatively small amount.  On the contrary, I'll be
grateful that you chose to support my project.)

Remember, as discussed above, that purchasing from the Android Market
is one of the best forms of support.

To be very clear: this is a for-profit business, not a non-profit, so
your donations are _not_ tax-deductible.  I use the word "donate" to
mean that you are voluntarily supporting development rather than
buying the product at a fixed price or not.  I'm running my business a
bit differently than is common by sharing the source code publicly and
offering the packages for download here.

If you like that idea, please support it!

<wiki:gadget url="http://gadgets.battery-indicator.googlecode.com/git/support-donate-buttons.xml" width="260" height="84">

If you prefer !PayPal, you can use this button and choose your
donation amount on the next page.  I believe this works even if you
don't have a !PayPal account (you can just enter credit card details
without creating an account.)

[https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=EK2UU4GETQG8A https://www.paypalobjects.com/en_US/i/btn/btn_donateCC_LG.gif]

If you prefer to donate in a currency other than US dollars, you can
use !PayPal to send it to the email address listed as the owner of
this project.  (Or find the correct address by clicking the !PayPal
button above; the address is indicated at the top of that screen in a
very large font.)

== Download APK Packages ==

Some folks may prefer the free version, since it's smaller and
simpler.  Since not everyone has access to the Android Market, here it
is:
[http://battery-indicator.googlecode.com/files/BatteryIndicator-4.1.1.apk BatteryIndicator-4.1.1.apk]

And finally, the Pro version that most of you are probably interested
in:
[http://battery-indicator.googlecode.com/files/BatteryIndicatorPro-5.1.3.apk BatteryIndicatorPro-5.1.3.apk]

You'll have to manually check back here from time to time to see if
there's an update.  As always, the Changelog is useful for deciding if
it's worth updating.
