= Frequently Asked Questions =

== What's new in the update? ==

*Pro Version*

v3.1.1 (_Bugfix_)
 * Someone managed to put a _null_ String in a place I thought one couldn't show up.  Fixed now.

v3.1.0
 * Alarms: With the new alarm feature, the app can now notify you when your battery becomes full, when the charge drops below or rises above a chosen level, if the temperature rises above a chosen level, or if the battery health fails.
 * (_Translation_) Partial French translations.
 * (_Translation_) Updated Italian translations.
 * (_Translation_) Fix error in Simplified Chinese translations.

v3.0.6 (_Translations_)
 * (_Translation_) Add Italian translations.

v3.0.5 (_Translations_)
 * (_Translation_) Fix Traditional Chinese translations.

v3.0.4 (_Translations_)
 * (_Translation_) Add Spanish translations.
 * (_Translation_) Add Traditional Chinese translations.

v3.0.3
 * (_Bugfix_) Remove FLAG_ACTIVITY_RESET_TASK_IF_NEEDED from Intent used to launch Battery Use screen. It doesn't appear to be necessary, and it caused a problem on at least one user's phone (which is a Droid X, but don't know if that's relevant).
 * (_Bugfix_) Some phones fluctuate wildly in their reported charge.  This causes Battery Indicator to think either that the phone has been charged or that a fuller battery has been put in.  I've adjusted the threshold to hopefully work well both for those with phones that fluctuate and for those who carry spare batteries.  With this version, a jump of 30 points or more is guaranteed to trip the switch, while a jump of 20 points or fewer is guaranteed not to. (For 21-29, it just depends on the situation).
 * (_Translation_) Add Chinese translations.

v3.0.2 (_Bugfix_)
 * (_Bugfix_) Auto-disable keyguard properly: User has to manually dismiss the keyguard once, then it will be disabled. This is both more secure (for secure screen locks) and fixes a bug that was present in various forms with all screen locks (including 'None').
 * (_Bugfix_) Make sure database is always closed properly.

v3.0.1
 * Log temperature and voltage, too.
 * Ability to export logs to CSV on SD card.
 * Option to close main window immediately after launching Battery Use screen.
 * Option to disallow manual lock screen disable.
 * A handful of minor tweaks and improvements throughout.

v3.0.0
 * Estimated discharge / charge time left. (Optional)
 * Logging of battery state. (Optional)
 * Themes for the main window. (Optional)
 * Manually/automatically dis/reenable the device lock screen. (Optional)
 * Efficiency improvements throughout.
 * Actually _smaller_ despite all the new features.
 * A "soft reset" of the service when you change settings, so the icon doesn't blink.
 * Green down to 20% (previous limit was 30%).
 * It now notices if a fuller battery has been put in, or if the phone was charged while off.
 * Trimmed down interface, moving many things to a menu.
 * So many new settings that they've been broken into multiple, easier to use pages.
 * Help pages explaining all of the settings.
 * Option to show the charge as larger text (only in notification tray).
 * Color preview.

*Free Version*

v3.0.3 (_Translations_)
 * (_Translation_) Add Italian translations.

v3.0.2 (_Translations_)
 * (_Translation_) Add Spanish translations.
 * (_Translation_) Add Traditional Chinese translations.

v3.0.1
 * (_Bugfix_) Remove FLAG_ACTIVITY_RESET_TASK_IF_NEEDED from Intent used to launch Battery Use screen. It doesn't appear to be necessary, and it caused a problem on at least one user's phone (which is a Droid X, but don't know if that's relevant).
 * (_Bugfix_) Some phones fluctuate wildly in their reported charge.  This causes Battery Indicator to think either that the phone has been charged or that a fuller battery has been put in.  I've adjusted the threshold to hopefully work well both for those with phones that fluctuate and for those who carry spare batteries.  With this version, a jump of 30 points or more is guaranteed to trip the switch, while a jump of 20 points or fewer is guaranteed not to. (For 21-29, it just depends on the situation).
 * (_Translation_) Add Chinese translations.

v3.0.0
 * Easy access to the system's Battery Use screen (requires Android 1.6+).
 * Hi-res icons (requires hi-res device).
 * A couple of new settings.
 * Efficiency improvements throughout.
 * It now notices if a fuller battery has been put in, or if the phone was charged while off.
 * Trimmed down interface, moving many things to a menu.
 * Help page explaining the settings.

== Why does the app ask for the permissions that it does? ==

That's a very good question, one that I think every developer should
explicitly address. One thing to keep in mind is that permissions are
all-or-nothing and happen at install time: if some optional feature
requires a permission in order to work, I need the app to request it
at install time.  By explaing here exactly why the app requests its
permissions and how it uses them, and of course by sharing the source
code publicly, I hope to make it an easy decision to grant the
permissions and install the app.

*WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE ("modify/delete SD card contents")*

This is so that the log viewer can export the logs to CSV on the SD
card.  Nothing else is ever written to storage, so if you don't use
the optional log feature, or if you never export the logs to CSV, then
the app will never touch the SD card.

*WAKE_LOCK ("prevent phone from sleeping")*

This is necessary for the lock screen functionality to work properly.
It won't be used at all if you don't have the app set to automatically
disable and reenable the lock screen. If you do have that turned on,
then the wake lock is released immediately after acquisition. It's
just a work-around to make sure the the lock screen is reenabled
properly; when I say immediately, I mean _immediately_: http://code.google.com/p/battery-indicator/source/browse/trunk/src/com/darshancomputing/BatteryIndicatorPro/BatteryIndicatorService.java?r=258#213

*RECEIVE_BOOT_COMPLETED ("automatically start at boot")*

This is so the app can optionally start itself on device startup
(which most users seem to want.)

*DISABLE_KEYGUARD ("disable keylock")*

This is for the optional lock screen functionality.

*VIBRATE ("control vibrator")*

This if for the optional alarms, so that they can optionally vibrate
when they are triggered.

== How does Battery Indicator work? / How does it know what percentage the battery is at? ==

The Android system has a mechanism where you can register your app to
be notified when the battery status changes.  So Battery Indicator has
a background service that is technically always running but is
essentially always sleeping and using basically no system resources
(because it doesn't do any polling -- it just sleeps and waits to be
notified by the OS when something changes), then when the battery
charge (or plugged-in status) changes, the system wakes it up and
tells it what the new battery charge (and status) is.  Then it takes
just a few milliseconds to change its icon to reflect the current
charge (and status) and goes back to sleep.

If you're technically oriented, the documentation for the core API
that Battery Indicator uses is here:
http://developer.android.com/reference/android/os/BatteryManager.html
and the actual source code to the development version of the app is
here: http://code.google.com/p/battery-indicator/source/browse/trunk .

== Will using Battery Indicator affect my battery life? ==

No.  Because Battery Indicator doesn't do any polling, it is virtually
always asleep, not using any CPU (and very little RAM).  When the
battery indicates to the system that its charge or state has changed,
the system then wakes Battery Indicator, which quickly updates itself
and goes back to sleep.

Because of this, Battery Indicator will have no measurable or
perceptible effect on battery life.

== Your app only displays the charge with a 10% resolution.  Please fix this. ==

Battery Indicator displays exactly what the system reports to it.  The
(original) *Motorola DROID*, the *Motorola Droid X*, the *Motorola
Droid 2*, and the *Samsung Moment* are known to only report their
charge at 10% intervals.  This is dumb but not my fault.  I've heard
from one user that the *Motorola i1* actually only reports at 100%,
65%, and 35%.  That's terrible, but again, there's nothing I can do
about it if that's how Motorola designed their device.  If you have
one of these crippled devices, and you find it bothersome, I think it
might be helpful to let your carrier and/or device manufacturer know
how you feel.  Motorola in particular is building a bad reputation in
this regard, so it would be good for them to know that people care
about the issue.

All other Android devices, as far as I know, report their charge at 1%
intervals.  _If you have a device that fails to do so (other than those
already mentioned in the previous paragraph), please let me know, and
I'll add it to this list_.

== Battery Indicator is inaccurate or jumps by several percent. ==

If it always jumps by exactly 10%, please see the previous question.

Using Battery Indicator in a supported software environment, you may
sometimes see the indicator jump by 2 or 3 percent during heavy
multitasking on older phones.  This is a design feature of Android,
and it's probably exactly what you want.  Battery Indicator uses very
little RAM, but it does use _some_.  If you are heavily multitasking
on an older device (with little RAM), Android will temporarily kill
background services (including Battery Indicator's) to reclaim
whatever little bit of RAM it can find.  Once things settle down, it
will restart the Battery Indicator background service, which will then
update the icon to the current level, which may be a few percent away.

The other thing that can cause this type of behavior, however, is
using it in an unsupported software environment:

 * *Third-Party ROMs*

These often work perfectly fine with Battery Indicator, but they
sometimes fail miserably when it comes time to restart background
services.  They can also by overzealous about killing them off.

 * *"Task Killer" style apps*

These apps cause way more problems than they solve and have a tendency
totally mess up any apps that legitimately run background services, as
Battery Indicator does.  Needless to say, if you're running an app
that constantly kills off Battery Indicator, there's nothing I can do
to make Battery Indicator work in such an environment.

== Battery Indicator seems to slow my phone down. ==

The only time I've ever heard of anything like that is when people use
a "task killer" type of app.  Those apps really wreak havoc on apps
like mine that use a background service; I recommend uninstalling any
apps like that that you might have.  Some people have gotten things to
work by telling the task killer to "ignore" my app, but most haven't
been able to get things to work until they uninstalled the task
killer.

== The indicator disappears from the status bar. ==

You're using some kind of "task killer" app, which is killing Battery
Indicator.  See the previous two questions.

== Can I have just the icon without the notification? / <br> Can I have just the notification without the icon? ==

Unfortunately, that's not possible at this time.  In all current
versions of Android, the notification icon and the actual notification
(in the pull-down menu) are tied together. If you try to set a
notification without an icon, the notification doesn't show up, and
the only way to get an icon in the status bar is to set a
notification.  If a future version of Android allows it, I will
definitely add an option to allow people to customize things in this
way.

== Can you make your app replace the stock battery icon? ==

Unfortunately, that's not possible at this time.  If a future version
of Android allows it, I will definitely do so.

== Can you add more color options for the icon? / <br> Can you make the icon look different when the battery is charging? / <br> Why can't I have my icon turn red above 30% or amber above 50%? ==

The way Android currently implements notifications is that any icons
you want to put in the status bar _must_ be included in the app.  You
can generate images on the fly in an Android application, and you can
use these images in most parts of your application, but you cannot use
generated images in the status bar.

What this means for Battery Indicator is that I can't make the icon as
customizable as I would like to.  Since I need to include both high
and medium resolution sets of images for every option (grayscale, red,
amber, and green), the app is already over half a megabyte in
size. While it would be easy to add more icons with different colors
and styles, or add a lightning bolt to indicate charging, for example,
this quickly increases the size of the package.  (A bigger package
takes up storage space on people's phones and -- even worse -- uses up
RAM that is generally in short supply.)

Hopefully a future version of Android will allow developers to use
dynamically-generated images in the status bar.  If that happens, then
I will be able to make the icon for Battery Indicator much more
configurable without having to worry about the package size. In the
mean time, I'll continue to do my best to balance usefulness and
configurability on the one hand and keeping the app very lightweight
on the other.

== Help!  The app won't download! ==

You need to go to Google for support if you're having any problems
with purchasing, downloading, and/or installing apps from the Android
Market.  They're the ones in control of all of that, so there's not
much I can do to help.  (Once you have Battery Indicator installed, of
course I'm the person to go to for support with the app itself.)

I have noticed, though, that sometimes if the Market app gets stuck
and won't download or install an app, restarting your phone and trying
again can help.  If the problem is with credit card authorization, it
might be that you need to update your credit card on file with Google
Checkout.  (It may be that your expiration date has changed, for
example.)

== Please allow the app to be installed to SD card for Android 2.2+. ==

I hear you.  However, Google is very clear that apps such as Battery
Indicator *should not* allow this^1^.  If I did this, and you moved
Battery Indicator to your SD card, then whenever you unmounted the
card from your phone (by plugging your phone into your computer to
copy files to/from your phone, for example), Battery Indicator would
be closed and would not be restarted until you did so manually.

Even if you're sure that you almost never mount your phone as a USB
mass storage device and/or that you don't mind this behavior, there's
no doubt that enabling it would confuse many of my users and this in
turn would cause a huge headache for me.  Battery Indicator simply
isn't one of the apps where this should be enabled.

`[1]` http://developer.android.com/guide/appendix/install-location.html#ShouldNot

== Who are you? ==

Well, that's a big and important question that's well beyond the
scope of this FAQ.  In brief, my legal name is Josiah Barber, although
I normally go by my nickname, Darshan.  Computers have been a hobby of
mine for most of my life, especially since 1999, when I got into open
source software.  Right now I'm studying to become a development
economist.

I work on Battery Indicator in my free time (mostly over the summer)
and the donations I get for the Pro version really go a long way
toward making my life easier and helping me keep focused on my
schoolwork.
